More precise static vectors for dh_group and signature_algorithm (#80)
tlswg/draft-ietf-tls-ctls: draft-ietf-tls-ctls.md

#### `dh_group`

Value: a single `CTLSDhGroup` to use for key establishment.

~~~~
struct {
    NamedGroup group_name;

>     uint16 key_length;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    uint16 key_exchange_length;
```

Or perhaps `key_share_length`.

} CTLSKeyShareGroup;
~~~~

> This is equivalent to a literal "supported_groups" extension in ClientHello

Author: Is it true that it is only present in ClientHello?

Reviewer: [Apparently not](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-rescorla-tls-rfc8446-bis-00#section-4.2)

```suggestion
This is equivalent to adding a "supported_groups" extension to every message
where that is allowed (i.e. ClientHello and EncryptedExtensions, in TLS 1.3) 
```

Author: Ah, I didn't know the existence of the table 1, thanks!

#### `dh_group`

Value: a single `CTLSKeyShareGroup` to use for key establishment.

~~~~
struct {
    NamedGroup group_name;

>     uint16 key_share_length;

Author: Indeed it is somewhat redundant with the group name. The goal is that two implementation don't have diverging interpretation of what "self-delimiting" means, and serialize messages differently.

Why is this important? The security of TLS rely on the non-ambiguity of the transcript hash: the serialization of two transcripts are equal if and only if the transcripts are equal.
Since cTLS modify the transcript serialization by compressing it, we need to check that this property still holds in cTLS.
If two implementations don't agree on the transcript serialization, they will have a different interpretation of what the transcript hash means, and we can't prove any security properties between their interaction when executing their (diverging) implementations of cTLS: an active attacker could interact with the two participants such that their transcript hashes are equal but correspond to different TLS 1.3 transcripts and break confidentiality / authenticity.
(such an attack would probably be difficult to implement in practice, but we can't prove it doesn't happen)

Adding an explicit `length` field like this is the easiest way to proceed with analysis tools, but adding a column to the Supported Groups registry would also be fine.

} CTLSKeyShareGroup;
~~~~

This is equivalent to adding a "supported_groups" extension to every message
where that is allowed (i.e. ClientHello and EncryptedExtensions, in TLS 1.3)
consisting solely of the group `CTLSKeyShareGroup.group_name`.

Static vectors (see {{static-vectors}}):

* `KeyShareClientHello.client_shares`
* `KeyShareEntry.key_exchange`, if `CTLSKeyShareGroup.key_share_length` is non-zero.

In JSON, this value is represented as a dictionary with two keys:
* `groupName`: a string containing the code point name from the TLS Supported Groups registry (e.g., "x25519").

> * `keyShareLength`: an integer, defaulting to zero if omitted.

Reviewer 2: I think I must be missing something here. Can you explain verbally how this is intended to work?

Reviewer 3: This sentence should be added to the draft.

Reviewer: We can add it as a reminder, but as a formal matter it is already covered by line 256 and the definition of a "static vector".

#### `signature_algorithm`

Value: a single `CTLSSignatureAlgorithm` to use for authentication.

~~~~
struct {
    SignatureScheme signature_scheme;
    uint16 signature_length;
} CTLSSignatureAlgorithm;
~~~~

This is equivalent to a placing a literal "signature_algorithms" extension
consisting solely of `CTLSSignatureAlgorithm.signature_scheme` in every extensions field where the "signature_algorithms" extension is

> permitted to appear (i.e. ClientHello and CertificateRequest, in TLS 1.3).  When this element is included,

Reviewer 2: .
